ESSAY

What is an Essay? The essay is a written piece that is designed to present an idea, 
propose an argument, express the emotion or initiate debate. 
It is a tool that is used to present writer's ideas in a non-fictional way. ... 
An essay can be as short as 500 words, it can also be 5000 words or more.

who made/discover essay?

The Frenchman Michel de Montaigne (1533–1592) was the first author to describe 
his work as essays; he used the term to characterize these as 
"attempts" to put his thoughts into writing.

There are four main types of essays: narrative, descriptive, expository, and argumentative.

-A narrative essay is a type of essay that has a single motif, or a central point, 
around which the whole narrative revolves. All incidents, happenings, and characters 
revolve around a single motif presented in the narrative. A narrative essay is similar 
to a simple five-paragraph essay, in that it has the same format.

-A descriptive essay gives a vivid, detailed description of something—generally a place or object, 
but possibly something more abstract like an emotion. ... Descriptive essays test your ability 
to use language in an original and creative way, to convey to the reader a memorable 
image of whatever you are describing.

-“Expository” means “intended to explain or describe something.” An expository essay provides a clear
, focused explanation of a particular topic, process, or set of ideas. It doesn't set out to prove a point, 
just to give a balanced view of its subject matter.

-The argumentative essay is a genre of writing that requires the student 
to investigate a topic, collect, generate, and evaluate evidence, and establish 
a position on the topic in a concise manner. Argumentative essay assignments generally 
call for extensive research of literature or previously published material.

importance of essay

Essay writing is an important part of studying for a degree for three reasons: 
(1) It increases understanding and helps the process of learning because it pushes you, 
amongst other things, to clarify and sort out ideas and information, to
 analyse source material and to exercise critical judgement.

advantages and disadvantages of essay

-advantages

The process of the writing of the essay, structures your thinking. ...
Writing an essay improves your skill with the word, syllable, style, that is so necessary for everyday life.
Writing for an audience (even when it consists of one person) helps you think from their point of view.

-disadvantages

1. Essay questions are time consuming to teachers and students. 
Students often spend much time answering only one or two essay questions. 
Teachers, on the other hand, also devote much time reading lengthy responses.
2. Essay responses are subject to bluffing. Essays eliminate guessing but not bluffing. 
Poorly prepared students desperately attempt to get a passing grade by 
answering something even if the responses are not related to the questions asked.
3. In practice, very few essays require originaltiy and most emphasize the lengthy enumeration of memorized facts.

take note

An essay is generally a short piece of writing outlining the writer's perspective or story. 
It is often considered synonymous with a story or a paper or an article. Essays can be formal as well as informal. 
Formal essays are generally academic in nature and tackle serious topics.